New instruction (#2)
MicrocontrollerApplications/Utilities: gitViaMPLABX.md

# Git
Git is nowadays probably the most common Version Control System for Software Development. Version Control is mainly used to create a development history 

> during development. This reduces the potential of data loss and enables one to easily reset changes. Furthermore, in professional software development teams 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Git is nowadays probably the most common Version Control System for Software Development. Version Control is used to create a change history during development.  
This reduces the potential of data loss and enables one to easily reset changes. Furthermore, in professional software development teams 
```

Author: fixed

Version Control can be used to review the work of colleagues to improve code quality and reduce the potential for bugs.

> Within this lecture we will not actively use Git, but GitHub to provdie you with the relevant code for your laboratory sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within this lecture we will not actively use Git, but provide you with the corresponding code for your lab sessions via GitHub.
```

Author: fixed

> Therefore, mainly one feature of Git is necessary - cloning a repository. Those who want to know more about Git, should take a look at the [References](#references)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, mainly one feature of Git is necessary - cloning a repository, which will be explained within this manual.  
Those who want to know more about Git, should take a look at the [References](#references)
```

Author: fixed

## Git Clone

> If not stated otherwise within the repositories README, cloning a git repository is always the same and requires the below 3 steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not stated otherwise within the repositories README, cloning a git repository is always the same and requires the below two steps.
```

Third step is optional after the first time done, isn't it?

Author: fixed, yes it is

### 1. Get the repository's link (in our case from GitHub)
---
Links to the relevant repositories are provided via Moodle for each laboratory session. 

![How to get repository link](git_images/getRepoLink.png)
### 2. Open MPLAB X IDE and clone the current repository
---

> Before you start, make sure that all your old projects are closed. 

Reviewer: Why that? I MPLAB running into issues if there are open projects?
If so, I guess we have to explain how to close a proejct.

Author: If the project is open you can not clone a new git repository but it is possible to work in the opend one

Author: fixed it

> To clone the repository please follow the instructions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To clone the repository please follow the below instructions:
```

Author: fixed it

> ![](git_images/mplab_cloneGit_3.gif)

Reviewer: Sadly the GIFs resolution is not that good, within the README.
Either tell them to click on it to have a better resolution, or focus the GIF on the Git window and add a screenshot to show how to open it via Team -> Git -> ....

Author: I will try a different tool

Author: I tried to re film it, can you check the quality ? It lookes quite good on my laptop

Reviewer: Still can't read the links. But as you added a written manual too, we should give it a try ;) :)

For those who do like to have written instructions:
1. copy the repository link (see ### 1.)
2. open MPLAB X IDE
3. close all open projects
4. choose in the toolbar TEAM
5. choos GIT --> clone

> 6. enter the repository link and choose the Destination Folder U://Microcontroller, select Next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. enter the repository link and choose the Destination Folder U://Microcontroller, click Next
```

Author: done

> 6. enter the repository link and choose the Destination Folder U://Microcontroller, select Next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. enter the repository link and choose the Destination Folder U:/Microcontroller, select Next
```

Are two slashes (//) required? I'm not sure right now.

Reviewer: @Badura-m did you see this? Couldn't find related changes in your latest commits.

> 7. select main as your remote Branche, select Next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. select main as your remote Branch, click Next
```

Author: done

8. check your settings and select finish

### 3. Clone the Library, you only need to do this once :)
> [!WARNING]
> In case you already cloned the library into your working folder - **do not clone it a second time!** 

> ![](git_images/mplab_cloneCLIB_1.gif)

Reviewer: Same as for the other GIF, resolution within the README is very low...
Would re-record it, showing only the Git window.

Author: I will add written discrption and try a different tool

> If you want your repository to be stored in a different folder simply change the location from *U:\Microcontroller\* to you prefered location. But keep in mind that it's harder to support you in case you use a different setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want your repositories to be stored in a different folder simply change the location from *U:/Microcontroller/* to your preferred location. But keep in mind that it's harder to support you in case you use a different setup and that **you need to make sure that _C_LIB is always positioned correctly**!
```

Within this lecture we will not actively use Git, but provide you with the corresponding code for your lab sessions via GitHub.
Therefore, mainly one feature of Git is necessary - cloning a repository, which will be explained within this manual.
Those who want to know more about Git, should take a look at the [References](#references)

## Git Clone
If not stated otherwise within the repositories README, cloning a git repository is always the same and requires the below two steps.
### 1. Get the repository's link (in our case from GitHub)
---
Links to the relevant repositories are provided via Moodle for each laboratory session. 

![How to get repository link](git_images/getRepoLink.png)
### 2. Open MPLAB X IDE and clone the current repository
---
Before you start, make sure that all your old projects are closed. To do so, you need to right-click on the microcontroller symbol of your current project shown in the left-hand column and then select *close*.
To clone the repository please the below instructions:
![](git_images/clone_repo_V2.gif)

For those who do like to have written instructions:

> 1. copy the repository link (see ### 1.)

Reviewer: regarding the "### 1.":
Chapters can be linked in Markdown, but without an IDE that auto-generates you the links it's quite a mess.
When we're done with everything else, I can add those links for you and show you next week how I did that using VS Code (which is by the way great for writing Markdown ;) )

Author: that sounds good

Within this lecture we will not actively use Git, but provide you with the corresponding code for your lab sessions via GitHub.
Therefore, mainly one feature of Git is necessary - cloning a repository, which will be explained within this manual.
Those who want to know more about Git, should take a look at the [References](#references)

## Git Clone
If not stated otherwise within the repositories README, cloning a git repository is always the same and requires the below two steps.
### 1. Get the repository's link (in our case from GitHub)
---
Links to the relevant repositories are provided via Moodle for each laboratory session. 

![How to get repository link](git_images/getRepoLink.png)
### 2. Open MPLAB X IDE and clone the current repository
---
Before you start, make sure that all your old projects are closed. To do so, you need to right-click on the microcontroller symbol of your current project shown in the left-hand column and then select *close*.

> To clone the repository please the below instructions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To clone the repository please follow the below instructions:
```

Author: fixed

![](git_images/clone_repo_V2.gif)

For those who do like to have written instructions:
1. copy the repository link (see ### 1.)
2. open MPLAB X IDE
3. close all open projects
4. choose in the toolbar TEAM
5. choose GIT --> clone
6. enter the repository link and choose the Destination Folder *U:/Microcontroller*, click Next
7. select main as your remote Branch, click Next
8. check your settings and select finish

### 3. Clone the Library, you only need to do this once :)
> [!WARNING]
> In case you already cloned the library into your working folder - **do not clone it a second time!** unless you change your working folder ;)

![](git_images/mplab_cloneCLIB_1.gif)

For those who do like to have written instructions: 
1. Open the [GitHub repository _C_LIB](https://github.com/MicrocontrollerApplications/_C_Lib)
2. Copy the repository link (see ### 1.)

> 3. follow step 2. to 8. of the in ### 2. described instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. follow step 2. to 8. of the instructions described in ### 2.
```

Author: fixed
